Editorial review: Document :target-before and :target-after pseudos (#42103)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/selectors/_colon_target-before/index.md

---
title: :target-before
slug: Web/CSS/Reference/Selectors/:target-before
page-type: css-pseudo-class
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: css.selectors.target-before
sidebar: cssref
---

{{SeeCompatTable}}

The **`:target-before`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [pseudo-class](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Selectors/Pseudo-classes) selects scroll markers that come before the **active** scroll marker (the one that currently matches {{cssxref(":target-current")}}) within a scroll marker group. You can use this selector to style navigation items that come before the current navigation position within a scroll marker group.

> [!NOTE]
> The `:target-before` pseudo-class is only valid on {{cssxref("::scroll-marker")}} pseudo-elements and elements that have been designated as scroll markers via the {{cssxref("scroll-target-group")}} property.

## Syntax

```css-nolint
:target-before {
  /* ... */
}
```

## Examples

### Styling navigation items before and after the active scroll marker

> In this example, we use the `:target-before` and {{cssxref(":target-after")}} pseudo-classes to highlight the scroll markers before and after the active one, indicating which items the user has already viewed and which are still to come.

Reviewer: wondering if we should tweak it to
```suggestion
In this example, we use the `:target-before` and {{cssxref(":target-after")}} pseudo-classes to highlight the scroll markers before and after the active one, indicating items the user has already viewed and those that are still to come.
```

Reviewer: thanks

    ex malesuada et. In vitae convallis lacus. Aliquam erat volutpat.
    Suspendisse ac imperdiet turpis. Aenean finibus sollicitudin eros pharetra
    congue. Duis ornare egestas augue ut luctus. Proin blandit quam nec lacus
    varius commodo et a urna. Ut id ornare felis, eget fermentum sapien.
  </p>
</section>
<section id="ch4" class="chapter">
  <h2>Chapter 4</h2>
  <p>
    Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla luctus
    aliquam dolor, eu lacinia lorem placerat vulputate. Duis felis orci,
    pulvinar id metus ut, rutrum luctus orci. Cras porttitor imperdiet nunc, at
    ultricies tellus laoreet sit amet.
  </p>
  <p>
    Sed auctor cursus massa at porta. Integer ligula ipsum, tristique sit amet
    orci vel, viverra egestas ligula. Curabitur vehicula tellus neque, ac ornare
    ex malesuada et. In vitae convallis lacus. Aliquam erat volutpat.
    Suspendisse ac imperdiet turpis. Aenean finibus sollicitudin eros pharetra
    congue. Duis ornare egestas augue ut luctus. Proin blandit quam nec lacus
    varius commodo et a urna. Ut id ornare felis, eget fermentum sapien.
  </p>
</section>
```

#### CSS

> We've set `scroll-target-group: auto` on the `<ol>` to turn it into a scroll marker group container and trigger the browser's algorithm for calculating which `<a>` element is the active scroll marker at any given time (that is, which link's target is currently in view). We then style the `:target-current` pseudo-class with a `red` {{cssxref("color")}} so that it stands out clearly.

Author: Updated
